content/page/about.md, before:

---
title: About
date: 2019-11-11T09:07:11+00:00
author: "Taras Kushnir"
categories:
  - Personal
---

Welcome to the Int Maker!

This website is another iteration of developing my personal website, engineering blog and my CV, this time combined in one.

My name is Taras Kushnir, originally I'm from Ukraine but I called many places "home". I'm a software engineer, architect and mentor. In my free time I climb mountains and [take pictures](https://500px.com/tkushnir).

Occasionally I blog about my experience (or lack of one) with machine learning, cloud, desktop software, electonics, vim vs emacs, orchestrating distributed computations and handling highload.

You're welcome to drop me a message at <a href="#" class="decorrated"
data-s="."
data-d="intmaker"
data-n="ktar"
data-t="com"
data-m="xxmxaxixlxtoxx:x"
data-a="&#x40;"
onclick="window.location.href = this.dataset.m.replace(/x/g,'') + this.dataset.n + this.dataset.a + this.dataset.d + this.dataset.s + this.dataset.t; return false;"><span class="upped">hello@intmaker.com</span></a>.

Commit message:

Add social links and projects

content/page/about.md, after:

---
title: About
date: 2019-11-11T09:07:11+00:00
author: "Taras Kushnir"
social: true
categories:
  - Personal
---

Welcome to the Int Maker!

This website is another iteration of developing my personal website, engineering blog and my CV, this time combined in one.

My name is Taras Kushnir, originally I'm from Ukraine but I called "home" many countries. I'm a software engineer, architect and mentor. Companies where I worked include Microsoft, Skype, Sybenetix (acquired by Nasdaq) and Eleks. In my free time I climb mountains and [take pictures](https://500px.com/tkushnir).

Occasionally I blog about my experience (or lack of one) with machine learning, cloud, desktop software, electonics, vim vs emacs, orchestrating distributed computations and handling highload.

You're welcome to drop me a message at <a href="#" class="decorrated"
data-s="."
data-d="intmaker"
data-n="ktar"
data-t="com"
data-m="xxmxaxixlxtoxx:x"
data-a="&#x40;"
onclick="window.location.href = this.dataset.m.replace(/x/g,'') + this.dataset.n + this.dataset.a + this.dataset.d + this.dataset.s + this.dataset.t; return false;"><span class="upped">hello@intmaker.com</span></a>.
